Hey guys, welcome back.
This lecture, what we're going to do is we're going to talk
about your habit schedule going forward with Instagram.
Now, and again, this is something I suggest you do,
but like something you're prescribed by your doctor,
you don't have to take it,
I just would prefer if you were less dead.
Now, what I suggest in this section is that we're going to focus
on some manual things that you can get in the habit of doing,
and for the first two weeks or so of your account, these
will contribute significantly to your account's growth.
It's really important when you first start out to get the
hang of the space you're in, what your competitors
are doing, what your users look like, what they post,
what they like, and to just get out there and actually
get used to the platform.
If you're someone who thinks you're an advanced Instagram user, but you're still taking a $10 online course... whatever,
go to the next section, that's perfectly fine.
Are we going to focus on more automated
ways of growing your account?
Yes, of course we are, but I think this is worth doing
and it takes 10 minutes, so just suck it up.
So what I suggest you do is every day you set a schedule
of getting on your account and, regardless of
when you're posting,
going in and following people's accounts, liking
people's photos, and commenting on their posts.
What this will allow you to do is notify every single
person that you interact with and in something like
30% to 40% of the time that you do that,
someone will then follow you back.
So it's a great way to get your first
handful of followers, those are
people who are going to like your
stuff, comment on your stuff, and
that's going to increase the exposure of your posts.
And yes, there are bots that do
this and they do it very well,
but we're going to cover that in the next
section coming up, so we'll do that later,
this is I think more useful because you can't learn as much from a bot, and also bots do some really weird things when they comment on people's photos.
So that's the beauty of Instagram.
Every time I follow you, you get a notification in the
notifications section saying, "This person followed you,"
and most times people will then go look at your profile,
and very often they will follow you back, especially
if you targeted them well.
If you follow them and then you comment on one of their posts
or you like some of their posts, they get multiple messages,
so they're even more likely to do it.
So the way I suggest doing it is pretty
simple. Just go to your Instagram.
Now, what you should do is pull up one of your direct
competitors from one of the sheets that we made before
So I'll check out mine.
So for me I'm going to pick, we'll check Futurism Gadgets.
I think that might be somewhat useful, I'm going to
pick someone who posts very similar stuff to me.
OK.
So we'll go to Futurism Gadgets. Now, the
goal here is not to follow the big account,
we don't care about that.
The odds of them following you back are very slim.
What we want to do is look at their followers, because
those people already self-selected themselves that
they're interested in futurism gadgets, that is similar enough
to what I'm doing, innovation posts, that this makes
sense. So then what you generally want to do is just go to one of their posts and you can look at the people who commented.
Those people are usually really engaged with this topic,
they really care, or if you're just lazy, you just go over
here to their followers list, and that's it, right there.
Now, all of these people are interested in futurism gadgets,
so I can just interact with these and it's very easy.
What I think you should do just for a couple seconds is
just verify that the people who are following this match
your general idea of a profile for your users. Now, we
had a resource activity before, we talked about making
user personas, but all I really care about is that maybe they're a college student, a business student, maybe they're someone
who works at a company in tech.
I don't know, there's a lot of different things that I could go for.
So let's just try out a couple of random ones.
OK.
This guy says he's ambitious, he's aspiring, he's a mechanical engineer, entrepreneur, innovator, actor, ok, so those are all things
that hit on possible people that I would want to follow
me, ambitious, aspiring, it's good for innovation,
he's an entrepreneur, that's exactly the group we're
going after, he thinks he's an innovator, that's cool.
OK.
So I would do this with a couple more, just to make sure
that these are the right people that I'm targeting,
that's not that I've completely misunderstood this account,
and then what I would do is just then try three things.
One, I'd follow them. Two, after I follow them, I'd go to their account, I'd probably like a couple of their posts, and if I really
think they hit the spot, I might comment on
some of their posts. Okay, in a later lecture,
I'll actually do it with Innovation Station,
but I'm just kind of showing you
the quick and dirty way of doing it.
Honestly, doing this will take 10 minutes of your day.
It's incredibly easy to do while you're in an
Uber, or you're sitting at a doctor's office, while
you're laying in bed not being able to sleep,
whatever. Now, everybody has a
different schedule for how they do this.
Some people say you follow someone, you like five of
their photos, and you comment on two, some people say
just follow people, that's it, and
you just like photos in your feed.
I don't generally like to do that.
I like to do what's called a triple tap, so you just follow them,
you go into their account, then you find two
of their images, and then you like them.
OK.
That's it.
You can add a comment if you want to, I think it's overkill.
I just like it that you can do three taps and you're done.
So here is an example of one that you could follow.
So if you were someone who wanted to focus on
just light growth, this is like 10 minutes a day, you're
going to do this first thing in the morning, whatever, and
you really only want to take 10-15 minutes,
that's it, the absolute bare minimum,
this is a pretty good schedule. So what I would
suggest you do is shoot for three posts a day.
This, I wrote your best times, 6 PM, 10 PM, 2 AM, just as reminders, because remember, we don't have a lot of data
on our audience yet.
I would suggest following 50 people, doing the triple tap
thing I was talking about, picking 20 of those and then
clicking two of their photos to like, this is incredibly easy
to do because if you have a list of followers, you can just go
Follow, Follow, Follow x 50 and then
just pick 20 to go in and like two.
And then the last thing is try to comment on five,
try to get an idea of what people are talking about,
what posts work, and figuring out how
to communicate with these people,
because they're going to be commenting on your posts,
you need to figure out this type of language. Then what I
put down here is total interactions. Now, it's 95 because
you do two double likes, so that's 40 plus 50 plus five.
Now, why did I put the total interactions? One, to give you an
idea of how many things you have to do with your fingers,
95 touches with your fingers, but also Instagram limits how
many interactions you can have per day on your account.
They limit that to 400. Anything over 400,
and they're going to think that you're a robot that's trying to spam their system, so that's when you get in the danger zone,
and they literally start shutting you down.
So we don't want to get even close to that.
That's why we shoot for 95.
Now, let's say you wanted to be an average user, that's
maybe 25 minutes, 20 minutes, something like that, you're
actually enjoying using Instagram,
I'd suggest posting six times, then I'd suggest
following 80, liking 30 and commenting on eight.
That gives you a total of 148 interactions.
I think that's perfectly fine.
And again, do this over a two week cycle,
you can do it seven if you're really lazy,
but the point is to get into it. And just
from this, honestly, that's 148 x 14,
that's 2000 interactions, and if you have 40% of people
following you, then that's easily like 800 followers.
I know that you overlap some,
but you kind of get the point.
This doesn't take a long time.
That's a very easy way to get your first thousand, five
hundred followers. The the last thing I put is aggressive,
this is great if you're someone who's just obsessed with
this, this is a big thing that you're going to use as a
growth channel for your business, and
you are fine giving it an hour a day.
So I just put follow 150, like 50, and comment 20, that puts you at 270, so you're comfortably underneath that cap before you get in
the danger zone. I'll put a link to this in the resources if
you want to use this template, it's pretty dang simple.
Now, another way you can do this, and here are two ways
that I like to do it, and it makes it incredibly useful
for me, if you've ever used the app Todoist, it's a
to do list app, and it works on Mac and Windows, so
don't worry about that.
If you have it, it looks like this.
OK.
It's an incredibly useful tool to use, because you can make to do lists, but also you can share them with people and turn them
into collaborative spaces, and you can type in very quickly
what you need and speak in everyday language.
So that's why it's incredibly useful.
So what I do on Todoist is I just make a project
over here and I'll put Innovation Station and I
might do multiple lists when I'm doing multiple
accounts. So there we go, Innovation Station.
Now, what I do is add a task and I can
put 50 likes or 50 follows every day.
So notice how when I put every day like that, it turns into
that calendar, so what does is every, if I submitted this,
every single day I'll get a push notification on my
computer, on my phone, telling me I need
to do these follows, and if I don't do it,
it's going to keep showing up,
so I have to click through it to finish it. And then if I want to
pick the time, so I get up at 8:00 AM, so let's say 8:00 AM.
Every single day at 8:00 AM it will
pop up and say, "Hey, please do this."
So I could do these 50 follows like that, and then
I could do, say, my 20 double likes every day,
and then my five comments every day at 8:00 AM. Cool.
OK, so that's a great way of reminding yourself to do it,
it's also an incredibly useful tool for other things.
Now, one other way you can do it is an app called Motivation,
and Motivation is an app that uses the concept of
breaking the chain to help you develop habits.
So the idea is that you use it to track every single
day that you do something, and it looks visually
glorious when you do it correctly, but when you don't
do it correctly it actually is quite demotivating.
So on a Mac, it looks like this, and
it pops down from your toolbar.
On a PC, it looks a little bit different, and on your
phone it looks a little bit different as well.
So what you do is, it shows every single day of the
month that you're in and then you just add a habit.
So if I said "Follow 50 people,"
it's going to create a little bar right there.
And then when I can do is go over here to
the three dots and I can set my settings.
Now, if I want to do this every single day,
I just leave it repeat it every single day.
I can put a reminder, same way as
with Todoist. If I don't care when I do it,
but I only want to do it five days a week,
I can do this.
And so, what will happen is, as I click through it,
it'll adjust itself, so once I hit my five,
it's ungray everything out, so you're good. Right here, it
tells you current streak and your longest streak,
total completions, that's just purely for motivation.
And it looks great.
So if I add another one, let's say like 20,
and then comment 5, every single day I'll get a notification
from all of these, and I can set the settings however I want,
so I can go to today or here and let's say
I did them, I can just check them through.
Right.
Every single day that I do it, I check it, I check it, it looks great.
If you screw up, it starts looking like crap, and this is
a good reminder, you really need to keep doing this.
That's a really simple tool.
I like it just because, as a person who gets obsessed
with things, I get obsessed with the way it looks,
and so I really want to break my record, I want to get as
long of a streak as I can. Really, really easy ways to do it,
I also suggest just checking out the habit schedule, this is something I suggest doing. In a follow-up lecture, you're going to
watch me just do this really quickly just to show
you how it's done, and I'll talk through it.
You can get a feeling for it.
All right, next lecture we're going to talk about habits with
dummy accounts, how to use them properly. See you then!